**Developers log 20241223**

This is the human's first log entry, AI already made two\! Felt like it was time to sum things up.

We spent a lot of time in the beginning writing requirement documents and execution plans. I see now these documents are not being actively used. However I felt it was worth doing since it provided context. Something of special importance of course when working with an AI.

What I will continue with I think is to write what I have coined Requirement an Implementation Plan or RIP documents together with the AI before starting with some new functionality. That is useful for me as I don't have to scroll in chat to see what is next to do (I save it in github repo as a md document). This is part of discovering a workflow that works for us.

What has been the experience creating an app this way? Here is what I have to say so fare:

* Dart code AI generated is in most cases correct, some minor errors and warnings that Visual Code will tell me how to fix. Sometimes it forgot where we decided to put some source files so import statements get wrong, again fixed easily with help of Visual Code.  
* Tests we wrote in the beginning are now broken (do not compile) because of changes we did making new functionality. That is ok, probably how I had worked on my own devices, now is time to redo the tests and I think the AI will fix this just fine.  
* So in short so far it seems doable writing code in this way. I call this declarative coding: Instead of me writing the logic I write specification and do debugging and testing.  
* One special case needs to be mentioned. We did a dialog used to edit a NamAction. AI generated code made the dialog return the result. Actually probably how I would have done the first version. But the app crashed and we did not manage to fix it. Suspecting what was the problem (from AI discussions) I rewrote to not return the result but use callbacks, and that worked. I told AI about how I solved it (this was the one time by the way I had to work a bit as a traditional developer). When we did a second similar case the AI repeated the problematic pattern not the new callback pattern. That was a bit disappointing but we discussed and when I explicitly said for future use of the callback pattern it did use it in the third similar case we did. Experience probably will remind me what to be explicit about in our conversations.
